# Description from Park et al (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-04900-7)

# Calling germline variants
We called the germline variants (single-nucleotide and short indels) on the normal and the tumor samples independently using Illumina IVC [1]. We used the default IVC confidence threshold (genotype quality score GQX ≥ 30) on the normal samples to determine the germline variants. Furthermore, we discarded all indel variants covered with less than 10 reads and when the allelic frequency was significantly different from 50% and also from 100% in the normal sample (Chi-square test P > 0.05).

# Variant annotation and filtering
We annotated the called variants in the VCF files using Annovar [2], database version 2014-11-12. Of the data Annovar reports, we used (i) the consequences of the mutations: synonymous, missense, truncating, splice site, frameshift indel, and in-frame indel, using the RefSeq gene annotations [3]; (ii) the estimated effect of missense mutations via the MetaLR predictor [4], which combines nine deleteriousness scores including PolyPhen-2, SIFT and others. We discarded all variants marked as possible artifacts in the ExAC (via VQSR recalibration scores supplied therein) or that were completely absent from ExAC. This filtering was performed on the full ExAC, which includes germline variants of TCGA samples in addition to other non-cancer cohorts. We also discarded double-nucleotide variants annotated by ExAC. 

# Detecting putative LOH events
In order to determine whether LOH has occurred in each gene in each tumor sample, we considered all germline variants (both rare and common), taking into consideration both the coding and noncoding (intronic/UTR) variants. The average number of variants of gene per sample is highly correlated with gene length (Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) = 0.55; Please, see Supplementary Fig. 2a). To reduce biases this may introduce, we added neighboring variants: (1) within 100 kb and (2) extending the window to 200 kb. The length bias is much reduced after adding neighboring variants within 100 kb ( PCC = 0.25). Employing an even longer window size (200 kb) does not further appreciably reduce the correlation between gene length and number of variants (PCC = 0.18). In conclusion, we reasoned that adding neighboring variants is warranted in order to lessen the bias wherein longer genes provide more statistical power to detect LOH and that a window size of 100 kb is sufficient since increasing the window size further is not advantageous.
When testing genes shorter than 100 kb, we extended the examined region bidirectionally so as to ensure that the gene was represented by variants spanning at least 100 kb across the chromosome. In the case when a gene is longer than 100 kb, we only considered the variants within that gene but without extending to include the neighbors. Similarly to calling coding variants, we also limited the analyses to genomic regions with sufficient sequencing coverage in the TCGA samples (see above). Homozygous germline mutations were not included in further analyses. Before performing a statistical test to call LOH, we applied an effect size threshold, requiring that the tumor VAF of a germline variant must be either higher than 0.7 or lower than 0.3. This ensures that the LOH was not a late event during tumorigenesis, which is an unlikely scenario for an LOH event associated with cancer-predisposing germline variants. Each variant in a gene (and possibly surrounding regions) that meets the effect size threshold was further tested individually using a two-tailed Fisher’s test that compares the read counts supporting the variant and the reference alleles in the tumor, versus the read counts supporting the variant and the reference alleles in the normal (non-cancerous) tissue. TheP-values from all tested variants corresponding to the gene were then pooled using Fisher’s method for combining P-values. Finally, we called LOH in the gene if the nominal pooled P-value was ≤ 0.05. 

# Reference
[1] Raczy, C. et al. Isaac: ultra-fast whole-genome secondary analysis on Illumina sequencing platforms.Bioinformatics 29, 2041–2043 (2013).
[2] Wang, K., Li, M. & Hakonarson, H. ANNOVAR: functional annotation of genetic variants from high-throughput sequencing data. Nucleic Acids Res. 38, e164 (2010).
[3] Pruitt, K. D. et al. RefSeq: an update on mammalian reference sequences. Nucleic Acids Res. 42, D756–D763 (2014).
[4] Dong, C. et al. Comparison and integration of deleteriousness prediction methods for nonsynonymous SNVs in whole exome sequencing studies. Hum. Mol. Genet. 24, 2125–2137 (2015).
