# Description from Park et al (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-018-04900-7)


# Randomization algorithm

We aggregated together the rare damaging germline variant (RDGVs) in each gene. Each sample was then assigned as carrying (‘1’) or not carrying (‘0’) at least one of such qualifying variants. To determine the statistical significance of the excess of RDGVs, we applied a randomization procedure to each of the different testing scenarios described above, in which the labels of the individuals are randomized within population strata (clusters determined on principal components of the common variant matrix; see above), but they are not randomized across strata. The labels are (i) in the ALFRED analysis: 1, putative LOH sample, 0, no-LOH sample; (ii) in the case versus control analysis: 1, cancer sample, 0, control (non-cancer) sample; (iii) in the cancer type of interest versus all other cancer types analysis: 1, cancer type of interest (e.g., breast cancer); 0, all other cancer types (e.g., non-breast cancer); (iv) in the cancer type of interest versus all of the other cancer types analysis only for putative LOH samples: 1, putative LOH samples in the cancer type of interest (e.g., breast cancer samples with LOH event); 0, putative LOH samples in all other cancer types (e.g., non-breast cancer samples without LOH events). In each iteration the test statistic is computed, which is the difference between (i) the relative frequency of samples (individuals) carrying RDGVs in the tumors with putative LOH and (ii) the relative frequency of samples carrying RDGVs in the tumors without putative LOH. Of note, the LOH tumors and the no-LOH tumors can be substituted with cases and controls, respectively, thereby allowing the same randomization procedure to be applied to the case–control analysis; see above for details. In other words, we test for significant excess of the proportion of the RDGV-bearing gene in cancer patients exhibiting putative LOH, or, equivalently, the excess of the proportion of putative LOH-exhibiting gene in samples bearing a RDGV. We randomized 500,000 times to determine an empirical P-value, which is the number of randomizations reporting an equal or higher value of the test statistic for a given gene than was observed in the actual data. 
